smartphone's camera versus human eye
both your eye and your smartphone's
camera have lenses and
surfaces sensitive to light your iris
can control the amount of light getting
into the eye
your lens focuses this light the retina
a light-sensitive surface at the back of
your eye receives the image
then it uses optic nerve to send
impulses to your brain
and finally the brain interprets what
you see at the moment
in smartphones light hits the lens
surface a special opening in the lens
controls how much light can enter the
camera
after that the light makes it to an
image sensor which is something like the
retina in your eye
interestingly both the retina and the
phone sensor receive
upside down images and then flip them
into the right position
smartphones accelerometer versus human
inner ear
there are loop shaped channels in your
inner ear they contain fluid and tiny
hair-like sensors
that prevent you from losing balance
inside these hair cells
there are tiny particles they monitor
the position of your head
in relation to motion and gravity it
helps you not to get confused when
moving forward and backward in
a car or up and down in an elevator to
figure out its location
your smartphone uses an accelerometer
just like your body
uses the inner ear the accelerometer
measures such forces as gravity motion
and vibrations
it also helps your device understand
which side is the right side up
smartphone's processor versus human
cortex
the cerebral cortex is the most
developed part of your brain
it's in charge of countless processes
going on in your body
your perception attention thinking
language and problem solving skills
and even the way you communicate with
others and move your limbs
all of this is possible thanks to your
cortex
but no worries your smartphone has a
processor to do the same things
it's the gadget central hub it receives
and carries out tons of commands
performing billions of calculations per
second it also controls everything going
on in your phone
and make sure it functions correctly
[Music]
smartphone's battery versus human
stomach
without energy you won't be able to
function and neither will your gadget
you get energy from everything you eat
your body digests food by
mixing it with different fluids in your
stomach the carbohydrates from the
products you've eaten
break down into a kind of sugar called
glucose it gets into your bloodstream
and is either used right away for energy
or stored to be used later
when your smartphone gets plugged in it
gets its own food
electricity this starts a chemical
reaction within the battery
once the battery is charged it stores
this chemical energy
and gradually turns it into electricity
smartphone's antivirus versus human
immune system
when your body spots outside invaders
for example bacteria
viruses are fungi your immune system
springs into action
it hunts these foreign substances and
gets rid of them
your immune system also keeps a record
of every single microbe that's ever
defeated
in case it has to deal with it again an
antivirus in turn
scans files programs and apps and
compares certain codes with the
information it has in its database
some of these codes may be similar to a
piece of malware kept in the database
then the antivirus decides this code is
a virus
and removes it or quarantines it
the internet versus human speech to make
it possible for you to communicate with
others several parts of your brain work
together
some of them help you formulate what you
want to say others enable you to
pronounce
words most of the speaking related
activity usually happens in the left
part of your brain
the internet is also a kind of
communication you
send and receive data the whole process
isn't any less complicated
it involves routers servers satellites
cell phone towers
radios your smartphone and a whole bunch
of stuff
smartphones compass versus human sense
of direction
people have an inbuilt navigation system
and you can thank
a part of your brain called the inter
rhino cortex for your sense of direction
place cells located there swing into
action once you start your way to a
particular place
groups of them immediately form a map of
your surroundings
grid cells are your brain's gps system
they tell you where you are relative to
the place where you started
and the head direction cells begin to
work when you're facing a certain
direction
your smartphone's gps uses radio waves
between
satellites and a receiver inside your
gadget to get the data necessary
to find out where you are and what time
it is
your phone might also have a sensor
called a magnetometer
it measures the direction and strength
of magnetic fields
then your gadget analyzes this
information and figures out your
location
smartphone's alarm versus human body
clock
your biological clock is your body's
internal alarm
that keeps track of time it tells you
when it's time to eat
to sleep to work harder and to relax
it's controlled by a group of cells in
your brain that react to light and dark
plus every cell in your body has a clock
of its own
and follows a 24-hour cycle that's why
jet lag
messes up your biological clock so badly
there's a limit to how much you can
readjust your body clock at a time
your smartphone's alarm is way less
complicated than your body clock
you set the time and get woken up
exactly when you need it
or you can choose a special app that
will follow your sleep pattern
and wake you up in a light stage of
sleep
smartphones memory card versus human
hippocampus
the hippocampus is part of your brain
responsible for learning and memories
thanks to it you can form short and
long-term memories
and navigate in space the hippocampus is
also the place where short-term memories
turn into long-term ones
when you place a memory card in your
smartphone tiny electrical currents from
the gadget move electrons in the flash
memory chip
that's how data gets written down when
you erase information
a slightly higher voltage is applied by
the way
an sd card usually can't keep data for
longer than 10 years
the data cells on it carry a certain
charge that dissipates with time
smartphones microphone versus human ear
your outer ear gathers sound waves and
sends them down the ear to your eardrum
it vibrates and sets in motion three
teeny bones in the middle ear
this causes the fluid in the inner ear
to move
hair-like cells located there bend and
produce electrical impulses
they're sent to the brain that
interprets these impulses as sounds
your smartphone uses a miniature
microphone that needs little power to
work
and doesn't take much space just like
those mini structures in your ear
sound waves hit the microphone its
diaphragm a thin piece of plastic
aluminum or
even paper starts to move back and forth
this vibration gets converted into small
electrical currents
and then to the audio signal